prep release notes v2.14.3 (#11084)
PrefectHQ/prefect: RELEASE-NOTES.md

- Deployments created in a push work pool (Prefect Cloud) will always have a `READY` status.
  
<p align="center">
<img width="976" alt="a late flow run for a deployment that is `NOT_READY`" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/db20979a-870d-44c4-ac0b-66f70d99e58b">
</p>

In Prefect Cloud, an event is emitted each time a deployment changes status. These events are viewable in the Event Feed.
<p align="center">
<img width="538" alt="event feed deployment status events" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/8ee076cd-fd30-47d1-9ee5-6b5a3b383b63">
</p>

You can also create an automation triggered by deployment status changes on the Automations page!

<p align="center">
<img width="862" alt="deployment status trigger on automations page" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/87a0945e-9b9e-406b-b020-fbd9733cb4c3">
</p>

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/1801
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10969
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10951
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10949

> ### Additional storage options for `flow.from_source`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Additional storage options for `flow.from_source`
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.14.3

> ## Observability with deployment status

Reviewer: @desertaxle Mind taking a look at this highlight?

> ## Observability with deployment status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Observability with deployment status
```

> You can now track the status of your deployments in the Prefect UI, which is especially useful when you are running served flows as they have no associated work pool or worker. If you see a flow run enter a `LATE` state (it isn’t running), you can click into the deployment for that flow run and see a red indicator next to your deployment. The worker, runner, or agent polling that deployment or its associated work queue is offline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now track the status of your deployments in the Prefect UI, which is especially useful when serving flows as they have no associated work pool or worker. If you see a flow run enter a `LATE` state (it isn’t running), you can click into the deployment for that flow run and see a red indicator next to your deployment. The worker, runner, or agent polling that deployment or its associated work queue is offline.
```

Reviewer: ah I knew it would be this

> - With served flows, your deployment be given a `READY` status if its associated process is running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Deployments created from served flows will have a `READY` status if its associated process is running.
```

> - With workers and work pools, your deployment will be given a `READY` status when a worker is `ONLINE`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Deployments created in a work pool will have `READY` status when a worker is `ONLINE` and polling the associated work queue.
```

> - With deployments associated with push work pools (Prefect Cloud), they will default to a `READY` status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Deployments created in a push work pool (Prefect Cloud) will always have a `READY` status.
```

  
<p align="center">
<img width="976" alt="a late flow run for a deployment that is `NOT_READY`" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/db20979a-870d-44c4-ac0b-66f70d99e58b">
</p>

> Deployment status events are viewable in the Event Feed in the Prefect UI, where an event is emitted when a deployment changes status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Prefect Cloud, an event is emitted each time a deployment changes status. These events are viewable in the Event Feed.
```

<p align="center">
<img width="538" alt="event feed deployment status events" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/8ee076cd-fd30-47d1-9ee5-6b5a3b383b63">
</p>

> You can also create an automation triggered by deployment status on the Automations page!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also create an automation triggered by deployment status changes on the Automations page!
```

<p align="center">
<img width="862" alt="deployment status trigger on automations page" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/87a0945e-9b9e-406b-b020-fbd9733cb4c3">
</p>

### Enhancements
- Add option to skip building a Docker image with `flow.deploy` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11082
- Add ability to specify remote storage for `Flow.from_source` via ffspec - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11072
- Add variables page empty state — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11044
- Allow composite sort of block documents by `block_type_name` and name — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11054
- Warn if task parameter introspection takes a long time — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11075

### Fixes
- Update cancellation cleanup service to allow for infrastructure teardown — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11055
- Allow `password` to be provided in `credentials` for `GitRespository` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11056
- Reset `PREFECT_UI_SERVE_BASE` to enable page refresh loading for non dashboard pages — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11065

> - Skips unsupported Windows tests — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11076

Reviewer: same with this one

> - Allow runner to load remotely stored flows when running hooks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11077

Reviewer: could this be an enhancement? it could go either way I think

Author: the PR is labeled as a fix

Reviewer: it's useful for autogenerating notes but never a guarantee. usually a PR or two gets moved to a diff category every release

> - Avoid yanked `pytest-asyncio==0.22.0` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11064

Reviewer: I think this can be at the bottom of fixes as it's technically maintenance but we don't use that category

Author: yeah good call

- Use `expected_start_time` in Graph v2 for unstarted runs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11070

> - Allow Pydantic v2 models in flow function signatures — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10966

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow Pydantic V2 models in flow function signatures — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10966
```

- Run `prefect-client` build workflow on reqs.txt updates — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11079

### Documentation
- Add clarification of term `task` in Global Concurrency docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11085
- Add guide to daemonize a worker or `.serve` process with systemd — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11008

> - Update Push Work Pools documentation to mention concurrency — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11068

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update push work pools documentation to mention concurrency — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11068
```
(concepts lowercased)

> - Add documentation for Teams — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11057

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add documentation on Prefect Cloud teams — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11057
```

- Update 2.14.2 RELEASE-NOTES.md link  — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11053

> - Add missing public assets to UI bundle — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11069

Reviewer: I think this could use clarification

Reviewer: maybe "Fix rendering of marketing banner on the Prefect dashboard"

- Deployments created in a push work pool (Prefect Cloud) will always have a `READY` status.
  
<p align="center">
<img width="976" alt="a late flow run for a deployment that is `NOT_READY`" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/db20979a-870d-44c4-ac0b-66f70d99e58b">
</p>

In Prefect Cloud, an event is emitted each time a deployment changes status. These events are viewable in the Event Feed.
<p align="center">
<img width="538" alt="event feed deployment status events" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/8ee076cd-fd30-47d1-9ee5-6b5a3b383b63">
</p>

You can also create an automation triggered by deployment status changes on the Automations page!

<p align="center">
<img width="862" alt="deployment status trigger on automations page" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/87a0945e-9b9e-406b-b020-fbd9733cb4c3">
</p>

### Additional storage options for `flow.from_source`

You can now load flows from a variety of storage options with `flow.from_source`! In addition to loading flows from a git repository, you can load flows from any supported `fsspec` protocol.

> Here's an example of loading and serving a flow from and S3 bucket:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of loading and serving a flow from an S3 bucket:
```

```python
from prefect import flow

if __name__ == "__main__":
    flow.from_source(
        source="s3://my-bucket/my-folder",
        entrypoint="flows.py:my_flow",
    ).serve(name="deployment-from-remote-flow")
```

You can use the `RemoteStorage` class to provide additional configuration options.

Here's an example of loading and serving a flow from Azure Blob Storage with a custom account name:

```python
from prefect import flow
from prefect.runner.storage import RemoteStorage

if __name__ == "__main__":
    flow.from_source(
        source=RemoteStorage(url="az://my-container/my-folder", account_name="my-account-name")
        entrypoint="flows.py:my_flow",
    ).serve(name="deployment-from-remote-flow")
```

See the following pull request for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11072

### Enhancements
- Add option to skip building a Docker image with `flow.deploy` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11082

> - Add variables page empty state — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11044

Reviewer: maybe something like "Display placeholder on the variables page when no variables are present"

- Allow composite sort of block documents by `block_type_name` and name — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11054

> - Warn if task parameter introspection takes a long time — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11075

Reviewer: This actually also adds a new setting, which might make sense to mention

Author: i did see that, i didnt want to make the line too long but lets see what i can do

### Fixes
- Update cancellation cleanup service to allow for infrastructure teardown — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11055
- Allow `password` to be provided in `credentials` for `GitRespository` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11056

> - Reset `PREFECT_UI_SERVE_BASE` to enable page refresh loading for non dashboard pages — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11065

Reviewer: I'm not totally sure it's worth mentioning `PREFECT_UI_SERVE_BASE` to the user

Reviewer: 🤷‍♀️

- Allow runner to load remotely stored flows when running hooks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11077
- Use `expected_start_time` in Graph v2 for unstarted runs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11070
- Allow Pydantic V2 models in flow function signatures — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10966
- Run `prefect-client` build workflow on reqs.txt updates — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11079
- Skips unsupported Windows tests — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11076
- Avoid yanked `pytest-asyncio==0.22.0` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11064

### Documentation
- Add clarification of term `task` in Global Concurrency docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11085
- Add guide to daemonize a worker or `.serve` process with systemd — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11008
- Update push work pools documentation to mention concurrency — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11068
- Add documentation on Prefect Cloud teams — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11057

> - Update 2.14.2 RELEASE-NOTES.md link  — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11053

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update 2.14.2 release notes  — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11053
```

- Deployments created from served flows will have a `READY` status if its associated process is running.
- Deployments created in a work pool will have a `READY` status when a worker is `ONLINE` and polling the associated work queue.
- Deployments created in a push work pool (Prefect Cloud) will always have a `READY` status.
  
<p align="center">
<img width="976" alt="a late flow run for a deployment that is `NOT_READY`" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/db20979a-870d-44c4-ac0b-66f70d99e58b">
</p>

In Prefect Cloud, an event is emitted each time a deployment changes status. These events are viewable in the Event Feed.
<p align="center">
<img width="538" alt="event feed deployment status events" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/8ee076cd-fd30-47d1-9ee5-6b5a3b383b63">
</p>

You can also create an automation triggered by deployment status changes on the Automations page!

<p align="center">
<img width="862" alt="deployment status trigger on automations page" src="https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/assets/42048900/87a0945e-9b9e-406b-b020-fbd9733cb4c3">
</p>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/1801
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10969
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10951
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10949
```

    ).serve(name="deployment-from-remote-flow")
```

See the following pull request for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11072

### Enhancements
- Add option to skip building a Docker image with `flow.deploy` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11082
- Display placeholder on the variables page when no variables are present — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11044
- Allow composite sort of block documents by `block_type_name` and name — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11054
- Add option to configure a warning via `PREFECT_TASK_INTROSPECTION_WARN_THRESHOLD` if task parameter introspection takes a long time — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11075

### Fixes
- Update cancellation cleanup service to allow for infrastructure teardown — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11055
- Allow `password` to be provided in `credentials` for `GitRespository` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11056
- Enable page refresh loading for non dashboard pages — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11065
- Allow runner to load remotely stored flows when running hooks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11077

> - Use `expected_start_time` in Graph v2 for unstarted runs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11070

Reviewer: This could be more user-facing. 

For instance, "Fix reading of flow run graph with unstarted tasks"

I had to go to the nebula PR and check out the regression test to discover that.

Author: ill use "runs" like guidry did bc its not just "tasks", but otherwise 👍🏼
